## Initial Assessment
From an academic perspective, our project, Qsine, is very exciting. The goal is to create an app that can recognize foods and dishes from a picture and return a common list of allergens that are likely to be present in such foods. While not a foolproof tool by any means as recipes can vary, it’s an interesting tech demo to show off what we’re capable of and help teach us some new tools. The main purpose of this project is to cover machine learning, computer vision, back end / front end, etc. all at once. Web scraping will be invaluable to us in this project, and that’s another tool to add to our repertoire.

Despite all the new skills being acquired, past experiences will be crucial to this project. This project will likely require heavy use of python, a language I’m well familiar with from my studies and curriculum. We’ll need to store our images somewhere and an SQL database makes the most sense, which is another tool I’m experienced with. Any kind of back end from an app will likely involve C# or another interpreted language which I learned in the past, and the team management skills from ENED will come in handy too. Since I spent the first two years of my time at UC as an IT major, I also have far more web development skills than most CS students. This means I can help with the web scraping we need to do and take care of the automated data acquisition so we can get to the meat of the project sooner.

As a software developer at Siemens, the biggest unique skill I bring to the table is testing. While developing features on Solution Link I wrote hundreds of test cases, many of which are still in production today. The purpose of these automated tests was to save time and therefore money by eliminating the need for a human agent when it comes to testing new features. I used the tool Gherkin for this which allows you to code C# functions which correspond to plain English sentences then lay those sentences out in a feature file. It’s an incredibly powerful tool that allows you to quickly make modular code and link it together to save time by reusing code later and creating an entirely new test from the resulting union. I can save my group and myself a lot of time and frustration with this mentality of testing-based development and automatically verify nothing is breaking with each update.

I’m excited to work on this because machine learning is one of those topics which is a major part of the current Computer Science landscape but not taught as thoroughly as one might expect in university. We learn about AI and how to design agents that think for themselves, but not about how to use machine learning as a part of an AI tool. While I likely don’t want to go into a job where machine learning is my main focus, it’s a commonly used part of other jobs. For instance, if a computer needs to recognize something in a specific image and do an action based on what it recognizes, a machine learning algorithm is the simplest way to train it to do that these days. All it takes is some human classification and training and you can teach your program what to look for. Additionally, web scraping has numerous uses when gathering data or acting based on info from various APIs. Working with an API directly will teach me a lot that can then be used for any tool I might want to make in the future which relies on data from another source.

Having worked with some of the group members in the past, I know that they’re good group members who will be proactive and work ahead of schedule. That said, it’s best to have specific goals to have a metric for self-evaluation and making sure we stay on track. The goals for the project should be to get a script that just lets you type in the name for a food or dish then returns common allergens, then to train it to recognize some basic dishes and pipe those outputs into the first script, and then to expand that to more dishes and work on camera integration. For myself, I’ll know I did my job if my assignment of tasks is completed in a timely fashion and my suite of tests is useful in maintaining the integrity of our codebase as the project continues. It’s an exciting project that will broaden my horizons of web development, server back end, machine learning, and API usage. All of these skills feel like they’ve been neglected in recent years and I’m happy to have an opportunity to progress them.
## Final Assessment
My contribution to this project was primarily focused on the data and python scripting end. I spent a lot of time working with Kaleb to implement my database storage techniques in a way that could fit in with his front end as easily as possible. We tried and failed numerous implementations – they succeeded but not as closely or easily as we wanted to extend the project later down the line. I built upon my initially identified skills on this front by eventually parsing through the data with python scripts to assemble it into the JSON files we used in the final version.

I learned a lot about database design, a good example being that one should never touch database design until they’re 100% sure what they need exactly for the rest of the project to function. The reason SQL was dropped is that it was too rigid for our evolving needs over time as we experimented with the LLM we used. My biggest obstacle was realizing a much simpler and lighter weight solution  (JSON) made much more sense for our use case. 

Our group accomplished a lot. Our initial goal was to be able to take a picture of a piece of food and get back a list of allergens. I believe we have a resounding success on that front, as did all the judges who met with us. What I learned about group work is that having meeting times decided well in advance works best for everyone’s different schedule. I can’t think of any unsuccessful teamwork moments except for group members trying to schedule within 24 hours of the suggested date when other members were often out of town as most of us commute to campus due to being seniors.

I believe my efforts on the project were exactly what was asked of me, I ensured that the data was in a usable form and tried numerous implementations until we found one that worked. Almost every contribution I made to the repository was via Visual Studio Code live share with Kaleb so I have almost no commits, but it’s not due to a lack of coding. That said, Kaleb deserves recognition. When we split up the responsibilities in Fall, I don’t think any of us realized that the responsibilities he took would be so much of the project. He had assistance any time he needed it, but the front end and training were more than any of the rest of us did. If I could go back, I would take over the image training as well as the database. It wasn’t as intense as the front end work, but it would’ve taken some work off his plate.
